There are six datasets as follows:

1) movie_info dataset -> This dataset includes metadata about the movies like their title, release date, budget, etc. It also includes ratings from different critics.

Column Name Column Description

movie_title The title of the movie.

release_date The release date of the movie.

season Because the movies are from the United States, the seasons are based on
the North American calendar.

phase The phase of the movie. Marvel phases are a way of grouping several films
in the MCU together.

productionbudgetinmillion(USD) The production budget of a movie.

worldwidecollectioninmillion(USD) World-wide collection of a film.

tomatometer Ratings or scores from Rotten Tomatoes Critics (Converted into decimal
form)

tomatoaudiencescore Ratings or scores from Rotten Tomatoes Audience (Converted into decimal
form)

imdb Ratings or scores from IMDB

metascore Ratings or scores from Metacritic Critics (Converted into decimal form

metauserscore Ratings or scores from Metacritic Users

2) europeboxoffice -> This dataset includes box office collections from various countries in European region.

Column Name Column Description

movie_title The title of the movie.

Country_names This includes a number of countries from the European region. It includes 29
different countries' columns.

OtherEuropeanCountries This is a specific column in the europeboxoffice dataset that states other
European countries that are not included because it is an added column to
handle the missing data for the difference between worldwide collection and
region-wise collection. There is also no official information about the box
office of the other remaining countries.

3) middleeastandafricabox_office -> This dataset includes box office collections from various countries in Middle east and African region.

Column Name Column Description

movie_title The title of the movie.

Country_names This includes a number of countries from the Middle East and African region.
It includes 11 different countries' columns.

OtherMiddleEastandAfricanCountries This is a specific column in the middleeastandafricaboxoffice dataset
that states other Middle East and African countries that are not included
because it is an added column to handle the missing data for the difference
between worldwide collection and region-wise collection. There is also no
official information about the box office of the other remaining countries.

4) asiapacificbox_office -> This dataset includes box office collections from various countries in Asia-Pacific region.

Column Name Column Description

movie_title The title of the movie.

Country_names This includes a number of countries from the Asia-Pacific region. It includes
15 different countries' columns.

OtherAsiaPacificCountries This is a specific column in the asiapacificboxoffice dataset that states
other Asia-Pacific countries that are not included because it is an added
column to handle the missing data for the difference between worldwide
collection and region-wise collection. There is also no official information
about the box office of the other remaining countries.

5) northamericabox_office -> This dataset includes box office collections from various countries in North American Region

Column Name Column Description

movie_title The title of the movie.

USAandCanada USA and Canada box office collection, it can also be called as domestic box
office collection.

Mexico Mexico box office collection. It is also a north American country.

Central America Central America box office collection. it is created to handle the missing
data for the difference between worldwide collection and region-wise
collection. There is also no official information about the box office of the
other remaining countries.

Caribbean Caribbean box office collection. it is created to handle the missing data for
the difference between worldwide collection and region-wise collection.
There is also no official information about the box office of the other
remaining countries.

6) southamericabox_office ->

Column Name Column Description

movie_title The title of the movie.

Country_names This includes a number of countries from the Asia-Pacific region. It includes
10 different countries' columns.

OtherSouthAmericanCountries This is a specific column in the southamericaboxoffice dataset that
states other South American countries that are not included because it is an
added column to handle the missing data for the difference between
worldwide collection and region-wise collection. There is also no official
information about the box office of the other remaining countries.

Important Notes:
● Because the MCU began in 2008, it will not include any Marvel films that are not part of the MCU.
● Marvel TV series and animated series are not included.
● The dataset will be updated regularly once a new movie is released and their box office is published.
● Due to no official information about some countries' box office collections, there can be null values. There are many types to deal with and it may depend on your analysis.
● Another reason for null values is that some movies were never released in some countries, perhaps due to their censor board or may be due to pandemic.